looking deeply inside nature through the
magnifying glass of science designers
extract principles processes and
materials that are forming the very
basis of design methodology from
synthetic constructs the resemble
biological materials to computational
methods that emulate neural processes
nature is driving design design is also
driving nature in realms of genetics
regenerative medicine and synthetic
biology designers are growing novel
technologies not foreseen or anticipated
by nature bionics explores the interplay
between biology and design as you can
see my legs are Bionic today I will tell
human stories of Bionic integration how
electro-mechanics attach to the body and
implanted inside the body are beginning
to bridge the gap between disability and
ability between human limitation and
human potential bionics has defined my
physicality in 1982 both of my legs were
amputated due to tissue damage from
frostbite incurred during a mountain
climbing accident that time I didn't
view my body as broken I reasoned that a
human being can never be broken
technology is broken technology is
inadequate this simple but powerful idea
was a call to arms to advance technology
for the elimination of my own disability
and ultimately to the disability of
others I began by developing specialized
limbs that allowed me to return to the
vertical world of rock and ice climbing
I quickly realized that the artificial
part of my body is malleable able to
take on any form any function a blank
slate which to create perhaps structures
that could extend beyond biological
capability
I made my height adjustable I could be
as short as five feet or as tall as I'd
like so when I was feeling badly about
myself insecure I would Jack my height
up well when I was feeling confident and
suave I would knock my height down a
notch just to give the competition a
chance narrow wedge feet allowing me to
climb ste crop fissures where the human
foot could not penetrate and spiked feet
enabled me to climb vertical ice walls
without ever experiencing muscle leg
fatigue through technological innovation
I returned to my sport stronger and
better technology had eliminated my
disability and allowed me a new climbing
prowess as a young man I imagined a
future world where technology so
advanced could rid the world of
disability a world in which neural
implants would allow the visually
impaired to see a world in which the
paralyzed could walk via body
exoskeletons sadly because of
deficiencies in technology disability is
a rampant in the world this gentleman is
missing three limbs as a testimony to
current technology he is out of the
wheelchair but we need to do a better
job in bionics to allow one day full
rehabilitation for a person with this
level of injury at the MIT Media Lab
we've established the Center for extreme
bionics the mission of the center is to
put forth fundamental science and
technological capability that will allow
the biomechatronics and regenerative
repair of humans across a broad range of
brain and body disabilities today I'm
going to tell you how my legs function
how they work
as a kind of case in point for this
Center now I made sure to shave my legs
last night because I knew I'd be showing
them off bionics entail
the engineering of extreme interfaces
there's three external interfaces my
Bionic lens mechanical how my limbs are
attached to my biological body dynamic
how they move like flesh and bone and
electrical how they communicate with my
nervous system I'll begin with
mechanical interface in the area of
design we still do not understand how to
attach devices to the body mechanically
it's extraordinary to me that in this
day and age one of the most mature
oldest technologies in the human
timeline the shoe still gives us
blisters how can this be we have no idea
how to attach things to our bodies this
is the beautifully lyrical design work
of Professor Neri Oxman at the MIT Media
Lab showing spatially varying
exoskeletal impedances shown here by
color variation in this 3d printed model
imagine a future where clothing is stiff
and soft where you need it when you need
it for optimal support and flexibility
without ever causing discomfort my
bionic limbs are attached my biological
body via synthetic skins with stiffness
variations that mirror my underlying
tissue biomechanics to achieve that
mirroring we first developed a
mathematical model of my biological limb
to that end we use imaging tools such as
MRI to look inside my body to figure out
the geometries and locations of various
tissues we also took robotic tools
here's a 14 actuator circle that goes
around the biological limb the actuators
come in find the surface of the limb
measure its unloaded shape and then they
push on the tissues to measure tissue
compliances at each anatomical point we
combine these imaging and robotic data
to build a mathematical description of
my biological limbs shown on the left
you see a bunch of points or nodes at
each node there's a color that
represents tissue compliance we then do
a mathematical transformation to the
design of the synthetic skin shown on
the right
and we discovered optimality is where
the body is stiff the synthetic skin
should be soft where the body is soft
the synthetic skin is
stuff and this Mearing occurs across all
tissue compliances with this framework
we produce bionic limbs there are the
most comfortable limbs I've ever worn
clearly in the future our clothing our
shoes our braces our prosthesis will no
longer be designed and manufactured
using artisan strategies but rather
data-driven quantitative frameworks in
that future our shoes will no longer
give us blisters we're also embedding
sensing and smart materials into the
synthetic skins this is a material
developed by sr I international
California unreal electrostatic effect
it changes stiffness so under zero
voltage the material is compliant it's
like floppy like paper than the buttons
pushed a voltage is applied and becomes
stiff as a board we embed this material
into the synthetic skin that attaches my
bionic limb to my biological body when I
walk here it's no voltage my interface
is soft and compliant the buttons pushed
voltage is applied and it stiffens
offering me a greater maneuverability of
the Bionic limb we're also building
exoskeletons this exoskeleton becomes
stiff and soft in just the right areas
of the running cycle to protect the
biological joints from high impacts and
degradation in the future we'll all be
wearing exoskeletons and such common
activities such as running next dynamic
interface how do my bionic limbs move
like flesh and bone my MIT lab we've
study how humans with normal physiology
stand walk and run what are the muscles
doing and how are they controlled by the
spinal cord this basic science motivates
what we build we're building Bionic
ankles knees and hips we're building
body parts from the ground up the body
limbs that I'm wearing are called biomes
they've been fitted to nearly a thousand
patients 402 which have been us wounded
soldiers how does it work at heel strike
under computer control the system
controls stiffness to attenuate the
shock of the limb hitting the ground
then at mid stance the bionic limb
outputs high torques and powers to
lift the person into the walking stride
comparable to how muscles work in the
calf region this Bionic propulsion is
very important clinically to patients so
on the left you see the Bionic device
worn by lady on the right a passive
device worn by the same lady that fails
to emulate normal muscle function
enabling her to do something everyone
should be able to do go up and down
their steps at home Banach Sall so
allows for extraordinary athletic feats
here's a gentleman running up a rocky
pathway says Steve Martin not the
comedian who lost his legs in a bomb
blast in Afghanistan we're also building
exoskeletal structures using these same
principles that wrap around the
biological limb this gentleman does not
have any leg condition any disability he
has a normal physiology so these
exoskeletons are applying muscle like
torques and powers so that his own
muscles need not apply those torques and
powers this is the first exoskeleton in
history that actually augments human
walking it really reduces metabolic cost
it's so profound in its augmentation
that when a normal healthy person wears
the device for 40 minutes and then takes
it off their own biological legs feel
ridiculously heavy and awkward we're
beginning the age in which machines
attached to our bodies will make us
stronger and faster and more efficient
moving on to electrical interface how do
my Bona Cleanse communicate with my
nervous system across my residual limb
our electrodes that measure the
electrical pulse of my muscles that's
communicated to the bionic limb so when
I think about moving my phantom limb the
robot tracks those movement desires this
diagram shows fundamentally how the
banach limb is controlled so we model
the missing biological limb and we've
discovered what reflexes occurred how
reflexes of the spinal cord are
controlling the muscles and that
capability is embedded in the chips of
the banach limb what we've done then is
we modulate the sensitivity of
reflects the modeled spinal reflex with
the neural signal so when I relax my
muscles in my residual limb I get very
little torque and power but the more I
fire my muscles the more torque I get
and I can even run and that was the
first demonstration of a running gait
under neural command feels great we want
to go a step further we want to actually
close the loop between the human and the
banach external limb we're doing
experiments where we're growing nerves
transected nerves through channels or
micro channel rays on the other side of
the channel the nerve then attaches to
cells skin cells and muscle cells in the
channels of motor channels we can sense
how the person wishes to move that can
be sent out wirelessly to the bionic
limb then sensors on the banach limb can
be converted to stimulations and
adjacent channels sensory channels so
when this is fully developed and for
human use persons like myself will not
only have synthetic limbs that move like
flesh and bone but actually feel like
flesh and bone
this video shows Lisa Mallette shortly
after being fitted with two Banach limbs
indeed bionics is making a profound
difference in people's lives
[Applause]
oh really
now turn it around and do the same thing
walking up walk up get on your heel to
toe like you would normally just walk on
a level ground try to walk right up and
hill next week I'm visiting the Centers
thank you thank you thank you
next week I'm visiting the Center for
Medicare and Medicaid Services and I'm
going to try to convince CMS to grant
appropriate code language in pricing so
this technology can be made available to
the patients that need
it's not well appreciated but over half
of the world's population suffers from
some form of cognitive emotional sensory
or motor condition and because of poor
technology too often conditions result
in disability and a poorer quality of
life basic levels of physiological
function should be a part of our human
rights every person should have the
right to live life without disability if
they so choose the right to live life
without severe depression the right to
see a loved one in the case of seeing
impaired or the right to walk or to
dance in the case of limb paralysis or
limb amputation as a society we can
achieve these human rights if we accept
the proposition that humans are not
disabled a person can never be broken
our built environment our technologies
are broken and disabled we the people
need not accept our limitations but can
transcend disability through
technological innovation indeed through
fundamental advances in bionics in this
century we will set the technological
foundation for an enhanced human
experience and we will end disability
like to finish up with one more story a
beautiful story the story of Adrianne
haslet-davis Adrian lost her left leg in
the Boston terrorist attack I met Adrian
when this photo was taken at Spaulding
Rehabilitation Hospital Adrian is a
dancer a ballroom dancer
Adrian breathes and lives dance it is
her expression it is her art form
naturally when she lost her limb in the
Boston terrorist attack she wanted to
return to the dance floor after meeting
her and driving home in my car I thought
I'm an MIT professor I have resources
let's build her a bionic limb to enable
her to go back to her life of dance
brought in MIT scientists with expertise
in prosthetics robotics machine learning
and biomechanics and over a 200 day
research period we studied dance we
brought in dancers with biological limbs
and we studied how they move
what forces do they apply on the dance
floor we took those data and we put
forth fundamental principles of dance
reflexive dance capability and we
embedded that intelligence into the
Banach Lim Banach sizz not only about
making people stronger and faster our
expression our humanity can be embedded
into electro-mechanics it was 3.5
seconds between the bomb blasts in the
Boston terrorist attack and 3.5 seconds
the criminals and cowards took Adrienne
off the dance floor in tune our days we
put her back we will not be intimidated
brought down diminished conquered or
stopped by acts of violence
[Applause]
ladies and gentlemen please allow me to
introduce Adrianne haslet-davis her
first performance since the attack she's
dancing with christian leitner
[Applause]
[Music]
sometimes you need
[Applause]
[Music]
ladies and gentlemen members of the
research team Eliot routes and Nathan
were party
Eliot to Nathan
[Applause]